MySql Notes

-> Structured Query Language or SQL is a standard Database language which is used to create, maintain and retrieve the data from relational databases like MySQL,      Oracle, SQL Server, PostGre, etc.
-> SQL is case insensitive.
-> MySQL is a relational database management system.
-> MySQL is open-source, free.
-> MySQL is ideal for both small and large applications.
-> MySQL is very fast, reliable, scalable, and easy to use.
-> MySQL is cross-platform.


Who Uses MySQL

Huge websites like Facebook, Twitter, Airbnb, Booking.com, Uber, GitHub, YouTube, etc.

SQL Commands

1. DDL – Data Definition Language
2. DQl – Data Query Language
3. DML – Data Manipulation Language
4. DCL – Data Control Language
5. TCL – Transaction Control Language.


1. DDL – Data Definition Language
-> DDL or Data Definition Language actually consists of the SQL commands that can be used to define the database schema.
-> It simply deals with descriptions of the database schema and is used to create and modify the structure of database objects in the database.

List of DDL commands: 

CREATE: This command is used to create the database or its objects (like table, index, function, views, store procedure, and triggers).
DROP: This command is used to delete objects from the database.
ALTER: This is used to alter the structure of the database.
TRUNCATE: This is used to remove all records from a table, including all spaces allocated for the records are removed.
COMMENT: This is used to add comments to the data dictionary.
RENAME: This is used to rename an object existing in the database.

2. DQl – Data Query Language
-> DQL statements are used for performing queries on the data within schema objects
->  The purpose of the DQL Command is to get some schema relation based on the query passed to it.

 SELECT: It is used to retrieve data from the database

3. DML – Data Manipulation Language

-> The SQL commands that deals with the manipulation of data present in the database belong to Data Manipulation Language and this includes most of the SQL statements. 
->  It is the component of the SQL statement that controls access to data and to the database.

List of DML commands: 

INSERT : It is used to insert data into a table.
UPDATE: It is used to update existing data within a table.
DELETE : It is used to delete records from a database table.
LOCK: Table control concurrency.
CALL: Call a PL/SQL or JAVA subprogram.
EXPLAIN PLAN: It describes the access path to data.

4. DCL – Data Control Language

-> DCL includes commands such as GRANT and REVOKE which mainly deal with the rights, permissions, and other controls of the database system. 

List of  DCL commands: 

GRANT: This command gives users access privileges to the database.
REVOKE: This command withdraws the user’s access privileges given by using the GRANT command.


5. TCL – Transaction Control Language. So we will see in detail about TCL as well. TCL commands deal with the transaction within the database. 

List of TCL commands: 

COMMIT: Commits a Transaction.
ROLLBACK: Rollbacks a transaction in case of any error occurs.
SAVEPOINT:Sets a savepoint within a transaction.
SET TRANSACTION: Specify characteristics for the transaction.
 

MySQL SELECT Statement

The SELECT statement is used to select data from a database.
The data returned is stored in a result table, called the result-set.

SYNTAX
SELECT colomun1,...
FROM table_name;




























































